Troubleshooting is a form of problem solving that is often used on a machine or system to repair failed products or processes. To solve it, it is a logical, systematic search of a problem and to re - operate the product or process. To identify the problem, troubleshooting is necessary. Troubleshooting requires confirmation that the solution will restore to its working state the product or process. In general, troubleshooting is identifying or diagnosing trouble in a system caused by some kind of failure. The problem is described as symptoms of malfunction, and the process of determining and remedying the causes of these symptoms is troubleshooting. Troubleshooting is the process where problems are identified and fixed. Computer troubleshooting may involve hardware or software and may involve both simultaneously at times. The basic process of troubleshooting is first to check out as many general issues as possible and then gradually check for more specific issues. This provides a logical approach to problem solving and can be applied to multiple product types.  
In our curriculum, we had a subject named troubleshooting with the subject code CPE 421. In this subject, we are required to report any hardware devices with their functions, types, common problems and its solutions. This hardware devices includes microprocessor and central processing unit. We are group into sixteen (16) consists of two (2) members each group but the numbers of students are uneven so there will be someone who will be alone. Unfortunately that person is me. But the number of members doesn’t matter for me. 
In this reporting I learned so many things. Microprocessor contains all, or most of, the central processing unit (CPU) functions and is the engine that goes into motion when you turn the computer on.  Motherboard is the one of the most essential parts of a computer system. It holds together many of the crucial components of a computer, including the central processing unit, memory and connectors for input and output devices. RAM or the random access memory, is the type of computer memory that can be accessed randomly. RAM is found in servers, PCs, tablet, smartphones and other devices. Hard Disk Drives (HDD) is an electromechanical data storage devices that uses magnetic storage to store and retrieve digital information. Keyboard is one of the primary input devices used with a computer. It consists of letters, numbers, and symbols, as well as perform other functions. Computer mouse is a hand-held pointing devices which allows a smooth control of the graphical user interface. Computer monitor is an output device that displays information. Network Interface Card (NIC) is a hardware component, a circuit board or chip, which is installed on a computer so that it can connect to a network. Small Computer System Interface is electronic interfaces that allow personal computers to communicate with peripheral hardware such as disk drives, tape drives, CD-ROM drives, printers and scanner. Expansion card is an electronic card or board that is used to add extra functionality to a computer. It is inserted into an expansion slot on the motherboard of a computer. Power supply is an electrical device that supplies electric power to an electrical load. Its function is to convert electric current from a source to the correct voltage, current and frequency. Video card is an expansion card to generate a feed of output images to a display device. Router is a device that mediates the transmission routes of data packets over an electronic communications network such as the Internet. Modem is a hardware device that converts data between transmission media so that it can be transmitted from a computer to computer. Printer is a peripheral device that is used for printing documents and photographs. Scanner is a device that reads or copies information or images into a computer. It scans an image or document especially for use or storage on a computer.
	We also had an activity that involve troubleshooting. In this activity we are group into two (2). Group 1 was assigned to troubleshoot raspberry pi while group 2 was assigned to troubleshoot system unit. Our goal is to identify the problem and find solution of that problem. But in our case the raspberry pi was working properly. It’s working properly because there's already operating system installed. Other factors are the cables that being used are functional and they're connected properly and securely. The raspberry pie received the exact power needed to operate. After each group finished their assigned task, the task was being swapped. Group 1 was assigned to troubleshoot the system unit and group 2 was assigned to troubleshoot the raspberry pi. When we start to operate the system unit it didn’t start. We conclude that the fuse of the power supply was blown resulting to failure for us to check other parts especially the motherboard. The CPU fan is functional but we observed that the system unit is dusty and the cables are old enough to break anytime. We recommend to buy new power supply or buy a new set of system unit.
	We made this far because of our instructors. I would like to thank Engr. Ralph Vincent Galao for everything. For being understanding and patient to any all of us. Even though he left us without notice it doesn’t change the fact the he taught us so many things. He treated us not just a student but a friend who understands us in every situation. I also would like to thank Engr. Max Perin for being good instructor to us. I admired him for taking charge and accepting the challenge as instructor. Even though he does not have enough knowledge and experience in teaching, he did his best to make us understand. 
	To be honest I have high expectations to this subject but when I take this subject I’m very disappointed because I expect more actual demonstration on how to troubleshoot any hardware devices rather lecture. Yet, I learned but I believed that doing actual demonstration make us more ready for the future. We can use it in work or in our workplace. Memories fade but if you apply and use it daily I assure you, you will not forget it for the rest of your lives.





